We've come a long way in creating our customer demographic segmentation model and in fact the backwards
elimination process has already been completed and we have this output which is a model with some variables
and some values that we're comfortable with and by now you're probably asking well what is there else
that we can do.
Well actually there are a couple of things and one of them we will explore today and that thing is transformation
of independent variables.
And what does that imply.
Well there is a assumption or suggestion that perhaps the independent variables they might not be the
best fit or they might not be the best representation of the facts that they are describing in the rule
format that they're presented to us so perhaps we can do something with these variables in order for
them to represent the effects even better and therefore make our model even better.
And there's a couple of transformation that you can do and we're not just talking about changing the
scale.
That's not a transformation that we're all interested in right now.
We're talking about very significant transformations.
And here are a couple of them that you will be working with.
If you get very you start doing modeling quite a lot you work working these falling transformations
.
So number one or one of them is the square root of your independent variable and you can apply this
transformation of course when your independent variable is 0 or greater number two or another one is
when you apply power to depend verbal like squaring it or taking the cube or your independent variable
.
And number three is taking the logarithm of your independent variable.
And once again here you can take longer.
When you depend a variable is greater than zero.
And these are the most common transformations that you will be applying to your daughter.
And I can give you a framework that will work in every scenario because ultimately your transformation
will depend on your data your intrinsic knowledge of the business what kind of variables you are working
with.
And many things like that.
So a lot of it is actually trial and error.
So while you're creating your model you input a variable in one form and then you put in another form
an and and then another four.
So you kind of you have some ideas as to which form the variable will work best in and then you try
them out and you see if that improves your model or not.
However what I can do is I can give you one specific example that I've used and a lot of data scientists
use quite often.
And that's that way will have something to look at and understand how transformation actually work.
And moreover you'll be able to take this away and apply it in your work in the future so kind of as
a starting point something that you'll right away.
No.
Why this transformation might need to take place.
So let's get started.
The one we'll be looking at is the logarithm which closes presentation.
And in fact we're going to be taking a logarithm of balance and I will explain why we will be why this
is necessary after we do it.
So first we'll create the transformation will apply to our model and then we'll talk about why I think
this is a good idea to take a longer with more balance.
So let's go ahead and do that in order to create a transformation Grettel right click in your working
space and select define new variable here.
We're going to type in first the name of the numerable So it's going to be log underscore balance and
then all put an equal sign and say the formula.
The formulas are going to be log.
So small small case Al then 10 because we want a logarithm of a base of 10 and then we will say balance
what we consciously would like that because we know we have zero balances in our data.
So we're going to add a 1 and a lot of my colleagues here will critique me for adding a 1 to the balance
because it's kind of an arbitrary thing to do.
There are other approaches.
Another approach would be to split your balance variable into two.
And when ever balance is equal to zero then you'll have a flag kind of a dummy variable that will signify
that and whenever a balance is non-zero you'll take a log 10 of just balance.
I find that's a more complex approach.
I think that for us it will be sufficient to undertake this approach and more and moreover I believe
that this approach is completely valid when you're building Mollet models.
You totally find to use this approach in order not to overcomplicate things and you will still you should
still get very good results just as you would with other methods.
So we're going to look OK.
And that will create a variable over here and now what do you want to do is you want to replace our
balance bearable with this new variable.
And I say replace because ultimately we shouldn't keep both of them in since that can lead to effects
of multicollinearity and that can break our model basically will have code correlated variables and
variables in there and that's not not a good thing to have.
So we're just going to take a look balance and I'll put it in instead of balance and now will just here
on this model.
And now let's put them side by side and compare So what you will notice here is that balance.
It had a very small profession about two.
Ten to the power of one to six.
Now Lobello has a good coefficients about zero point zero six.
So we could have easily corrected this problem by changing the scale of balance.
But what we did we actually transformed the variable.
And let's see how that impacted our model in terms of adjusted our squared.
You can see that here it's 1 5 1 1 9 7 here is 1 5 1 0 0 6 so it actually went down a bit.
Meaning this model is a bit of a worse fit.
And at the same time you can also see that the accuracy went up a little bit but once again accuracy
is not the defining factor for us.
We do see that the R-squared has dropped a bit and Nevertheless I prefer to keep the balance as a log
balance and you don't always see that our square drops.
Sometimes this will be a great transformation will actually increase R-squared But let's have a look
at why I think that LOEG balance is better to have as a variable than just balance.
I'll bring up another slide to explain this.
Start off with let's look at the wrong balance variable and it's measured in thousands of dollars.
Then and one unit increase in balance means a thousand dollars on top of the existing balance.
So let's look at two scenarios.
Scenario 1 when you balance that we want to understand what the effect of a one year increase is for
a thousand dollar account.
In that case a thousand dollar count goes to 2000 $2000 accounts or basically doubles in Scenario Two
we want to understand what the effect of a 1 unit increase is for somebody who has $10000 in their account
.
In that case the Congress from $10000 to $11000.
So it's nowhere near doubling it's only a 10 percent increase and the greater your balance is your starting
balance is the less significant.
Will that 1 unit increase be.
And that is the key point.
So now let's look at the logarithm of balance luggers and balance.
If there's a 1 unit increase in this transformed variable then what that means for the actual variable
is that it increases 10 times.
So in scenario 1 you're starting down was a thousand.
Your new balance after a 1 unit increase is $10000 is our to your starting balance was $10000 and now
your new balance after one year and increase is $100000.
The second approach here which is ungreen has a much more consistent effect than the first approach
which is in red.
Why.
Well because in the first approach and read as your starting balance is the balance that you're looking
at or the person that you're trying to segment as his balance gets greater and greater and greater than
the effect of a one unit increase becomes less and less and less noticeable and therefore we can say
we can't equally Sigmond somebody who has a balance under $10000 and somebody who has a balance of one
million dollars because for them this one huge increase will mean absolutely different things whereas
the approach in green it has the same effect on any time to any person regardless of their starting
balance.
It's always a 10 times increase so a 1 unit increase has a consistent increase in the balance variable
which is 10 times so whether your balance is 1000 those 10000 or whether it's $10000 it goes to $100000
.
So regardless of who we're segmenting we can say that the effect of a one unit increase in the new transformed
variable is consistent throughout our population and that is much more powerful because that allows
you doesn't restrict your logistic regression.
It doesn't actually it doesn't just focus on one part of your segment.
It can be applied across all of your population or all of the observations that you have equally and
that's why personally I believe that when it comes to balances especially when it's bounces of people
and their cancer or their incomes and so on.
It is a good idea to at least experiment and see what will happen if you transform your balance or that
montri variable into a logarithm of that variable.
So that's our basic transformation.
Once again that's just one example.
Through your science career you will get to work with many more but do keep this one in mind and it
will always be a good starting point for you when you're investigating transformations.